發信人: kaaskop@TWserv (), 信區: The228Case
標  題: March 8 & March 9, 1947, report from an outsider
發信站: 台灣文化資訊站 (Sat Dec 30 08:25:05 1995)
轉信站: TWserv


        The evening [Sat., March 8, 1947] after dinner we sat discussing with 
friends the dread implications of the word from Keelung.*  Suddenly the night 
silence was shattered.  The rattle of gunfire could be heard not far away on 
the boulevard leading into the city from the north.  Soon thereafter - a 
matter of minutes - [Chinese] Nationalist Army trucks rolled slowly along the 
road before our house, and from them a hail of machine-gun fire was directed 
at random into the darkness, ripping through windows and walls and 
ricocheting in the black alleyways.
        The crack of rifle-fire and the chatter of machine guns could be 
heard throughout the night, across the town.  The troops had come in from 
Keelung.
        ...
        From an upper window we watched Nationalist soldiers in action in the 
alleys across the way.  We saw Formosans bayoneted in the street without 
provocation.  A man was robbed before our eyes - and then cut down and run 
through.  Another ran into the street in pursuit of soldiers dragging a girl 
away from his house and we saw him, too cut down.
        ...
        At one moment from our vantage point we saw the Canadian nurse in 
charge of the hospital (Miss Hildur Hermanson) run out accompanied by two 
Formosan nurses and three assistants with stretchers.  They boldly crossed 
the boulevard to enter a warren of alleys beyond.  Soon they returned, 
carrying a desperately wounded man.  As they entered the hospital building 
soldiers leveled fire from the street, but missed the nurses, merely knocking 
chucking from the cornice just under a large Canadian flag.  This time there 
were no official news broadcasts to tell of [Chinese] Nationalist troops 
attacking a Canadian Mission hospital.
        Throughout that grim Sunday patients were brought into the mission 
compound, some shot, some literally hacked to pieces.  A well-known Formosan 
teacher had been shot in the back while trying to reach her home and had 
robbed as she lay in the street before someone managed to bring her into the 
hospital nearby.
        Night came, but no rest; gunfire continued to be heard, and was 
especially heavy that evening in the Manka [Wanhua] quarter of the city, a 
crowded slumlike area.
        What were we to see next day?

* The reinforced Chinese Nationalist troops landed on Keelung on March 8, 
  1947. 

[from George Kerr (1965), Formosa Betrayed, pp. 292-3]



 
