發信人: kaaskop@TWserv (), 信區: The228Case
標  題: "What the unwelcomed foreigners saw" [1]
發信站: 台灣文化資訊站 (Sat Dec 30 08:36:37 1995)
轉信站: TWserv


        In later days when UNRRA [United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation 
Administration] members, missionaries, foreign businessmen and our consular 
staff men could come together to compare notes for that week, the stories 
were much the same from every part of the island.  ... one foreigner saw a 
youngster riding his bike at breakneck speed through the streets, evidently 
trying to reach home, or perhaps speeding to his grandparents' home with 
messages.  He was knocked off his bicycle.  He was then forced to hold out 
his hands which were cruelly slashed, after which the [Chinese] Nationalist 
soldiers made off with the machine, leaving the boy bleeding and helpless in 
the street.
        ...
        On March 11 I was informed by a most reliable Formosan source that 
while the Settlement Committee was intensively busy in the preceding week, a 
substantial number of younger men had concluded it was hopeless to treat with 
Chen Yi, and had begun to develop an underground organization.  When the 
troops began to land on Saturday night these youths were much better prepared 
to escape.*  While the more conservative older leaders were being captured, 
tortured and killed about town, the more determined resistance group managed 
to go into hiding and ultimately escaped to Hong Kong, Shanghai or Japan, 
where they had developed contacts.
        ...
        After three days of random shooting and bayoneting in the Taipei 
streets the Government forces began to push out into suburban and rural 
areas. ...
        By March 17 the pattern of terror and revenge had emerged very 
clearly.  First to be destroyed were all established critics of the 
Government.  Then in their turn came Settlement Committee members and their 
principal aides, all youths who had taken part in the interim policing of 
Taipei, middle school students, middle school teachers, lawyers, economic 
leaders and members of influential families, ....
        ...

* The Chinese Nationalists placed the members of the youth organization - the 
  Loyal Service Corps- the students and teachers who had volunteered to take 
  over policing duties after the Chinese Nationalists abandoned their post on 
  March 1, on the systematic vengeance lists just second to the members of the 
  Settlement Committee.  The Chinese Nationalists, based on the Service Corps 
  enlistment rolls, started a systematic search.  If a student could not be 
  found at once, either a member of his family was seized or a fellow student 
  was taken to serve as hostage or a substitute in death.
 



 
