發信人: ccho@TWserv (Frank Romanov), 信區: The228Case
標  題: FORMOSA BETRAYED
發信站: 台灣文化資訊站 (Thu Dec 24 13:44:42 1998)
轉信站: TWserv (local)

FORMOSA BETRAYED

by George H. Kerr
Honolulu, Hawaii
Feburary 28, 1965


for more information please visit
http://ccmail2.sjsmit.edu.tw/~s844227/

this is run in English text...

FOR MY FORMOSAN FRIENDS...
remembering the March Affair, 1947

Here is some introducation....


THE HERAT OF THE MATTER

"Our Experience in Formosa is most enlightening.
The Administration of the former KMT regime's Government
Chen Yi has alienated the people from the Central Government.
Many were forced to fee that conditions under autocratic urle
[Japanese Government's rule] were preferable.

The KMT regime's Central Government lost a fine opportunity to
indicate to the Chinese people and to the world at large its
capability to provide honest and efficient administration.
They cannot attribute their failure to the activities of the
Communists or of dissident elements.  The people anticipated
sincerely and enthusiastically deliverance from the Japanese
yoke.  Howerer, Chen Yi and his henchmen ruthlissly, corruptly,
and avariciously imposed their regime upop a happy and amenable
Taiwanese.  The Army conducted themselves as conquerors.
Secret police operated freely to intimidate and to facilitate
exploitation by KMT regime's Central Government officials....

The island is extremely productive in coal, rice, sugar, cement,
fruits and tea.  Both hydro and thermal power are abundant. The
Japanese had efficiently electrified even remote areas and also
established excellent railroad lines and highways.  Eighty per
cent of Taiwanese can read and write in Japenese and Chinese,
the exact antithesis of conditions prevailing in the mainland
of China.

There were indications that Formosans would be receptive toward
United States guardianship and United Nations trusteeship.
They fear that the KMT regime's Central Government contemplates
bleeding their island to support the tottering and corrupt
Nanking machine, and I think their fears well founded."

Lieutenant General Albert C.  Wedemeyer
to the Secertary of State, August 17, 1947

United States Relations With China, p. 309. 



--
建立新的國家　走出台灣人民的自尊　　Call me Republic of Taiwan
共創我們的家　共造新的台灣共和國　　台灣人　台灣情　台灣國

建國黨　ＷＷＷ　http://www.taip.org.tw　台文站建國黨板 twserv.csie.nctu.edu.tw
建國黨　EMAIL　taip@taip.org.tw　　　　　　　　　　　　taip
